Hi! I'm Daniel Sims, a tech enthusiast and an accomplished leader with a global footprint, currently based in Seattle. My technical acumen, coupled with a rapid learning ability and a keen interest in Artificial Intelligence, enables me to drive innovation in complex business environments.

Feel free to share this page, download my resume, and interact with ResumeGPT, my custom program, below!

About me:
As a programmer and tech leader, I specialize in data and AI, with a track record at companies like Starburst Data and Tableau. My passion for understanding systems and managing diverse teams is matched by my love for learning and making lifelong friends. If you value a unique blend of technical proficiency, collaborative spirit, and an unwavering pursuit of excellence, I invite you to connect with me.

Location:
Duvall, WA
Age:
39
Country:
USA
Interests:
Artificial Intelligence, Virtual Reality
Education:
University of Washington
Employment:
Starburst Data, OpenMarket, Tableau

Testimonials:

Daniel is among the smartest and most active managers I have had. He really challenged me to think about the way I work. Our team always performed consistently well because he was engaged with us. In doing so he brought us to the highest level of performance: creativity, which is something truly rare.

-- Chris Ghyzel (Technical Account Manager)


Daniel is a savvy technical leader who tackles challenging problems thinking out of the box. Always responsive and ready to engage. When working with my team, he always brought valuable insights, both technical and the customer's perspective.

-- Alex Albu (Director, Engineering)


Daniel cares deeply about the team members he manages and mentors. He wants to see his team members succeed, which is a quality that his direct reports could feel daily in their work alongside him.

-- Sejin Mong (Director, Customer Success)


It is not often you closely collaborate with someone whose talents span so many areas. Technical, analytical, tactical. That's just the start.

-- Alex Lavoie (Technical Account Manager)


Daniel is extremely reliable and trustworthy, and I knew that any project with him on it would be driven to completion and be successful. Not only is he a do-er, but he also fosters a fantastic work environment.

-- Kevin Haley (Product Manager)


He possess exceptional problem-solving skills and can approach complex situations with a calm and analytical mindset.

-- Lexi Wilkins (Project Manager)


What makes Daniel standout is his data driven and "back to fundamentals" style of working, and is a leader that inspires through action. He is highly technical leader in the data/AI/ML domain paired with a strong business & people mindset.

-- Luke Watkins (Senior Technical Account Manager)


Beyond his technical skills and leadership abilities, Dan's interpersonal skills made him a pleasure to work with. He fostered a collaborative and inclusive environment, encouraging open communication and actively seeking input from team members.

-- JB Oh (Technical Account Manager)


EDUCATION:
Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration
Univerity of Washington
•
June 2015
In my academic journey, I explored a broad spectrum of business subjects that have become a cornerstone in my tech-oriented career. From Business Finance to E-Marketing and International Trade, my foundational knowledge has been integral in navigating the dynamic landscape of the tech industry.

WORK:
Manager, Technical Account Management
Starburst Data
•
August 2022 - June 2023
I managed a specialized team of technical account managers who catered to high-profile clients, navigated complex challenges, and implemented systems to enhance operational efficiency. My focus was on using innovative solutions and clear communication to achieve customer satisfaction and drive team performance.


Fostered a culture of empowerment and teamwork, leading to a high-performing team in a challenging and technical environment. This leadership style resulted in improved team performance, higher job satisfaction, and the successful nurturing of individuals into roles of increased responsibility and challenge.
Introduced an effective communication strategy that bridged the gap between clients and internal teams. This initiative involved setting up standardized patterns of client communication and internal 'key customer issues' escalations meetings, resulting in better issue tracking, faster problem resolution, and enhanced collaboration across the board.
Implemented and administered a 600 user Tableau Server across the company, providing a unified data layer and improving departmental coordination. This solution significantly enhanced daily operations, as evidenced by up to 1000 views of dashboards per day.
Technical Account Manager
Starburst Data
•
August 2021 - August 2022
In this role, I fused technical expertise with account management, cultivating relationships with significant customer accounts while driving data solutions. Leveraging Trino/Presto and other advanced technologies, I built robust data strategies that facilitated efficient querying for the world's largest datasets.


Served as the trusted point of contact for high-profile customer accounts, consistently delivering high-quality support and facilitating collaboration with global data teams.
Fostered strong relationships with product and engineering teams, contributing to significant product enhancements through informed liaising and effective communication.
Senior Technical Account Manager
OpenMarket Inc.
•
December 2020 - August 2021
Seamlessly blended my technical acumen and client relationship management capabilities to significantly enhance our global text messaging platforms. I oversaw the global messaging operations for world-renowned technology companies, ensuring optimal performance and customer satisfaction.


Managed global messaging operations, successfully handling billions of worldwide transactions. This role involved ensuring the seamless delivery of every text message, which significantly improved our client's operational efficiency and user experience.
Collaborated with the Data Engineering team to build a robust and innovative data lake infrastructure using advanced technologies like Parquet, S3, Hive, and Presto. This strategic project effectively managed the enormous volume of text message data, demonstrating the importance of efficiency and accuracy in maintaining data value.
Owner, Quantitative Analyst, Financial Advisor
Spearhead Capital Management, LLC
•
June 2013 - December 2020
Founded and managed a boutique investment firm where I harnessed my expertise in data-driven solutions and quantitative analysis to bring value to the financial markets. I developed novel tools for derivative pricing and risk hedging, thereby fundamentally transforming the approach to investment.


Developed automated workflows for Monte Carlo Simulations and built tools for mass valuation of options using the Black-Scholes formula. This unprecedented move not only streamlined operations but also increased accuracy and efficiency in option pricing and risk hedging.
Developed a fully automated data pipeline, integrating all index/equity derivative trades on every US exchange along with other crucial market data. Combined with data aggregation and visualization, this sophisticated infrastructure brought transparency to analysis and enhanced decision-making capabilities.
Manager, Software Engineering
Tableau Software
•
November 2013 - December 2018
I excelled in various roles of increasing responsibility within the support and engineering domains. My journey began as a Technical Support Engineer, progressing to a Technical Account Manager, followed by a Manager of Technical Account Management, and culminated as the Manager of Software Engineering.


Led and managed teams ranging from 10 to 13 members across different roles, driving significant enhancements in defect triage, resolution, and product support. Championed the adoption of Scrum methodology and the development of innovative solutions, leading to improvements in operational efficiency, cost savings, and customer service.
Excelled in customer-centric roles, delivering white-glove service to large enterprise customers and customizing solutions to meet unique needs. Achieved high customer satisfaction and renewal rates.
Stockbroker
Scottrade, Inc.
•
November 2007 - June 2013
Within a small team setting, I managed a multitude of facets of the brokerage and maintained over 15,000 accounts.


Acquired FINRA Series 7 and Series 63 licenses, underlining my mastery of financial regulations, securities, and ethical practices.
Utilized my reputation as a proficient professional in options trading to execute high-volume trades for clients, while also educating them about options trading. This superior service led to enhanced client retention and increased brokerage assets.

SKILLS:
Leadership & Management
Team Management
Diversity & Inclusion
Customer Relations
Programming languages
Python
Java
C#
Data engineering
SQL
ETL
Data Warehousing
System Design
Distributed Systems
Data Architecture
System Resiliance
Customer Facing Skills
Relationship Management
Escalation Handling
Product Feedback
Container Technologies
Kubernetes
Docker
Helm

Get in touch. Contact:
I am always open to discussing new opportunities, innovative ideas, or how I can bring value to your team. Feel free to reach out.

Phone
425.922.0726
Email
DSims21@gmail.com
LinkedIn
DanielJSims
© Copyright 2023 Daniel Sims


Daniel Sims

Seattle, WA • DSims21@gmail.com • 425-922-0726
LinkedIn: DanielJSims • StackOverflow: MonteCarloSims • GitHub: DSims21

Education:
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON	Seattle, WA
BA, Business Administration	2015
Relevant Coursework: Management of Organizations, Information Analysis, Operations, Project Management, Statistics

Experience: 
STARBURST DATA	Cambridge, MA (Remote)
Manager, Technical Account Management / Lead Data Engineer (Telemetry)	Aug. 2022 – Jun. 2023
•	Utilized advanced AI tools, notably GPT-4, to enhance operational efficiency across multiple areas, including the creation of internal and external planning documents, the generation of powerful presentations, data analysis for informed decision-making, design of OKRs and supporting documentation, and the proposition of new educational and service programs.
•	Oversaw the company's most prominent and technically demanding customer accounts, demonstrating skills in client management, and technical problem-solving.
•	Initiated and implemented innovative systems and processes based on organizational needs, seeing company-wide adoption.
•	Led and nurtured a high-performing team, creating an environment that promoted teamwork, empowered individuals, and boosted team performance.
•	Leveraged quantitative background and programming expertise to introduce analytics solutions on a team and company-wide scale.
•	Collaborated with product and engineering teams, contributing to product enhancements and bridging the gap between clients and internal teams.
•	Gained skills in systems and process design, team leadership, product improvement, and analytics solution development.

Senior Technical Account Manager / Data Engineer	Aug. 2021 – Aug. 2022
•	Served as the primary point of contact for significant customer accounts, collaborating with global data teams.
•	Managed world's largest datasets, using Trino/Presto for comprehensive data solutions, ensuring efficient data federation and massively parallel processing.
•	Developed and implemented data infrastructure strategies for high-touch accounts, improving data storage, retrieval processes, and interoperability.
•	Deployed scalable data strategies in large enterprise environments that utilized massively parallel processing, enhancing efficiency in querying and analyzing vast datasets.
•	Designed team-wide analytics solutions, enhancing decision-making capabilities and fostering a culture of data-driven insights.
•	Engaged regularly with product and engineering teams, acting as a liaison and contributing towards product enhancement.
•	Gained skills in high-touch account management, project management, data infrastructure strategy, application of Trino/Presto through DevOps, and Platform Engineering principles.

OPENMARKET INC.	Seattle, WA (Remote)
Senior Technical Account Manager / Data Engineer	Dec. 2020 – Aug. 2021
•	Worked closely with the company's most significant account to design and implement global text messaging platforms, including innovative products such as satellite communication.
•	Collaborated with 19 teams of engineers, innovators, DevOps engineers, and platform engineers to monitor and stabilize a real-time global platform.
•	Managed time-sensitive SMS data, similar to market data, understanding the importance of avoiding delays to maintain its value.
•	Utilized knowledge of the scale of markets to perform effectively in the role.
•	Developed data warehouse infrastructure using Parquet, S3, Hive, and Presto to handle billions of rows of text message data.
•	Created internal visualizations to monitor delivery rates, proactively identifying and resolving issues to maintain optimal performance.


SPEARHEAD CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC	Bellevue, WA
Owner, Quantitative Analyst, Software Engineer, Data Engineer, Financial Advisor	Jun. 2013 – Dec 2020
•	Achieved the FINRA Series 3 and Series 66 licenses, demonstrating a comprehensive understanding of financial regulations, commodities, futures contracts, securities, and ethical business practices in the financial services industry.
•	Developed and maintained Athena, a program using C# for the collection and storage of empirical market micro-structure data, including live streaming equity/index derivative data, implied volatility skew, and put/call-parity deviations.
•	Constructed a Derivative Pricing Calculator, a tool for mass valuation of options using Python and SQL Server, applying the Black-Scholes formula to include Delta, Vega, and Implied Volatility calculations.
•	Built Neural Networks to predict derivative pricing and utilized quantum computing to balance a basket of derivative securities and risk hedges, guided by financial theories such as Black-Scholes, Information Theory, and Kelly Optimization.
•	Created and maintained a fully automated Market Data Pipeline from US exchanges to aggregated visualization using AWS Athena, Tableau, and Powershell, handling all Index/equity derivative trades on every US exchange.
•	Developed a nightly automated Monte Carlo Simulation workflow using Python, AWS Athena, AWS S3, and Linux to compute stocks' probabilistic outcomes for specific future dates.
•	Managed, queried, migrated, and automated billion+ row datasets and reduced billions of events to create logic leading to actionable data points.

TABLEAU SOFTWARE	Seattle, WA
Manager, Software Engineering (Supportability)	Nov. 2013 – Dec. 2018
•	Promoted to various support and engineering roles during a five-year tenure at this $1B business intelligence and data analytics software company.
•	Led technical troubleshooting efforts for the world's largest analytics platforms, addressing complex, high-level issues that required a deep understanding of large-scale data handling, which is directly related to the new role's requirements.
•	Conducted regular meetings with C-Level executives to provide updates on critical escalations, demonstrating effective communication skills and the ability to manage relationships with high-profile stakeholders.
•	Responded to critical client needs by personally visiting customer sites for presentations and hands-on troubleshooting, indicating a commitment to customer service and ability to handle high-pressure situations, akin to managing the most demanding accounts in the new role.

SCOTTRADE	Seattle, WA
Stockbroker	Nov. 2007 – Jun. 2013
•	Earned the FINRA Series 7 and Series 63 licenses, demonstrating a high level of knowledge and expertise in financial regulations, securities, and ethical practices.
•	Gained a reputation as a skilled professional in options trading, exhibiting a deep understanding of advanced market principles and a consistent ability to place large trades for customers.
•	Prioritized speed and accuracy, recognizing their critical importance in the fast-paced and high-stakes world of stock trading, a mindset that carries over into my management and technical roles.

Skills & Interests:
Financial: Quant Finance, Valuation, Greeks, Hedging, High Frequency Trading, Black Scholes, Kelly Criterion 
Technical: Python, SQL, Java, C#, C++, OpenAI API, LangChain, Distributed Systems, Big Data, Kubernetes, Data Visualization, Tableau, Docker, Helm, Linux, Git, AWS, GCP, Azure, Open-Source Collaboration, Troubleshooting
Language: English (proficient,) Spanish (intermediate,) French (intermediate,) Arabic (beginner)
Interests: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Virtual Reality, Traveling, Electric Scootering 

Common questions and answers to roles: 
STARBURST DATA - Manager
1. Can you provide a specific example of a new process or system that you implemented? How did you identify the need for this change, and how did it benefit the company? 

Yes, I designed and implemented Tableau Server for the whole company. Working in close partnership with other departments, we built dashboards which corresponded to our part of the data mesh. We used Starburst as a semantic layer. I identified this need because each department was working through its own metrics at its own pace - we needed a unified layer. The benefit to the company was immense. The dashboards were viewed up to 1000 times per day and became a mission critical part of people's day to day work. 

2. You mentioned leveraging your quantitative background and programming skills to introduce analytics solutions. Could you elaborate on one of these solutions? What impact did it have?

My quantitative background gives me a unique perspective of the world - one based on probability. This probability is useful when trying to extrapolate future events. In the case of management this can apply to escalations, renewals, or even just getting ahead of a potential issue. My programming background allows me to build systems which address issues once and for all. If I see a problem that can be solved by automation or by a program, I have the ability to take that route. I built a program called 'Radar Ping' which integrated into technical account manager's and account manager's slack app. I could, on a regular basis, 'ping' the team on micro surveys pertaining to their accounts. Questions on probability of renewal or probability of expansion could be addressed. Not only that, we could determine whether or not two parties agreed on the outcome. 

3. You've noted that you oversaw the company's most prominent and technically demanding customer accounts. Could you provide an example of a challenge you faced in this role and how you overcame it? 

Yes, these accounts possess some of the largest datasets on earth. As such, they have unique issues and challenges. When dealing with a top-tier money-center bank, I was faced with a demanding timeline for myself and the Technical Account Manager assigned to the account. We were required to develop a key piece of software as fast as possible. This took honest coordination between us, product management, engineering, and leadership as a whole. We navigated these waters together and were able to deliver the software changes on time. Another element of challenges are those around security, authentication, and high-availability. These are mission critical systems which need to be maintained and monitored at high levels, and my team was able to help with that - at global scale and with some of the best data teams on earth. 

4. Can you share an instance where your collaboration with product and engineering teams led to significant product enhancements?

Yes, at Starburst there is a process by which new product enhancements are reviewed and cataloged against many metrics such as revenue, risk, ease of development, and strategic value. I was always very judicious in this process and very honest - earning praise from the product managers who were doing their best to maintain a truly prioritized backlog. One example of a time where my honesty paid off what when a major company needed a large body of work completed around authentication type. This authentication type would require quite a bit of engineering work and in many stages. Together with product, engineering, and the customer, we came up with a plan to develop and implement this new auth type on a schedule that was communicated and acceptable to the customer. 

5. How did you measure the operational efficiency that was enhanced by the AI tools you implemented? What were the key performance indicators, and how much improvement did you see?

The operational efficiency was measured in the form of OKR completion. I used AI in order to formulate a set of specific OKRs to match our departmental and company-wide OKRS. These OKRs were designed as SMART goals meant to push me and the team. We began immediately. With the help of AI, we were able to produce some documents and then work upon them collectively to refine them. This human refinement took less time than if we would have also had to compile the document from the beginning. 

6. When you speak of leading and nurturing a high-performing team, could you give an example of a particular team member's growth during your tenure? How did you foster this development?

I believe that I grew side by side with many of my team members. From struggling with efficiency, to team identity, to working with my fellow managers. 

7. What strategies did you employ to bridge the gap between clients and internal teams effectively?

To do this I focused on increasing both client communication and internal communication independently. I implemented a standardized pattern of client communication - one by which notes were taken during every meeting and sent to customers as a way to validate work. I also implemented standardized methods of internal communication - such as a 'key customer issues' meeting whereby each person could gather with the team and explain particular issues they may be facing. They could garner support, unification, and advice from other individuals. If one or more issues were found to be common, we could then more easily and in a more streamlined way approach the owning department for a solution. The solutions were easier to track with more people chatting about them internally. 


STARBURST DATA - Technical Account Manager 
1. Can you provide a specific example of a data infrastructure strategy that you developed and implemented for high-touch accounts? What was the impact on data storage, retrieval processes, and interoperability?

Yes, There are a few examples. One is on scalability where a customer was building multiple Trino clusters. I worked closely with them as they were building to address any issues and solve questions around monitoring using prometheus and Kubernetes. This same account was seeing high costs related to data storage retrieval from AWS S3, which I was able to reduce through knowledge of AWS and Trino. Another example is an account that was suffering from performance issues relating to their infrastructure. We went through the escalation process and involved the CTO for assistance. After multiple engaged troubleshooting sessions, we were able to resolve the performance issues. 

2. Can you elaborate on your experience with Trino/Presto? How did you leverage these tools for comprehensive data solutions?

I started using these tools as I learned that common databases sometimes were not enough in order to hold and query very large datasets. I built and maintained my own data lake, I built data lakes and query components for companies, and as I was doing so, I found Trino. I was able to see the power immediately. Even billions of rows could return in a second because of the way it splits queries across many nodes. I have 5+ years of experience using trino. I leveraged Trino to power Tableau dashboards and python programs which required speed in order to drive insight. I implemented Tableau across the whole company at Starburst and made it the single semantic layer powering all of the Tableau dashboards. In working with customers, they noted my extreme understanding of the high level concepts of Trino as well as the ability to dig in and solve low level issues. This is how I gained credibility with many platform engineering and devops teams. On many occasions 

3. Could you describe a situation where you used your analytics solutions to drive a decision-making process? What was the outcome?

I made many dashboards encompassing the entire team dynamic. There were dashboards which showed the customer base and key facts about them (how many, what kind, which team, etc.) There were team dashboards which showed account load per person which allowed me to make accurate decisions on where new accounts would land. There were sales dashboards which showed pipeline and expected account revenue. There were individuals predictions about renewals and expansions which allowed me to raise important issues early. 

4. When you say that you've managed the world's largest datasets, could you provide a specific example of a challenge you faced and how you overcame it?

Yes. In many instances, these datasets span the entire world or may be chunked by region or country. There is often a need to query across borders. For example, a customer may need to ask a question both of their North American data as well as their EMEA data. Trino can solve the problem, but it takes a strong knowledge of the product. I was able to act as the person with a strong knowledge of how difficult tasks could be accomplished, help project manage the actual solution, and sometimes even be the one to implement it. Another example is of cost attribution. I was able to build an entire solution which allowed large enterprises to attribute the cost of a particular query to a particular person or group. This allowed them to bill the appropriate internal team. 

5. Could you explain how you fostered a culture of data-driven insights within your team?

Yes, one of the most pervasive issues on the data-front that we had was our ability to query usage and telemetry data. I was able to not only solve the technical pieces of the problem, but I was able to use it as a springboard to have conversations about data-driven discussions and decisions. With a new toolset in our hands, we could come up with more data-drive answers as a team. 
